**Example 2.5.** Let $p \in \mathbb{Z}$ be a prime. Then $\mathbb{Z}_{(p)} = \{a/b : a, b \in \mathbb{Z}, p \nmid b\}$. As in the previous example, $\mathbb{Z}$ is a PID and $\mathbb{Z}_{(p)}$ is a DVR; the valuation on $\mathbb{Q}$ is the $p$-adic valuation. The residue field is $\mathbb{Z}_{(p)}/p\mathbb{Z}_{(p)} \simeq \mathbb{F}_p$ and the quotient map $\mathbb{Z}_{(p)} \twoheadrightarrow \mathbb{F}_p$ is reduction modulo $p$.

## 2.3 Localization of modules

The concept of localization generalizes immediately to modules. As above, let $A$ be a commutative ring, let $S$ be a multiplicative subset of $A$, and let $M$ be an $A$-module. The localization $S^{-1}M$ of $M$ with respect to $S$ is an $S^{-1}A$-module equipped with an $A$-module homomorphism $\iota\colon M \to S^{-1}M$ with the universal property that if $N$ is an $S^{-1}A$-module and $\varphi\colon M \to N$ is an $A$-module homomorphism, then $\varphi$ factors uniquely through $S^{-1}M$ (via $\iota$). Note that in this definition we are viewing $S^{-1}A$-modules as $A$-modules via the canonical homomorphism $A \to S^{-1}A$ that is part of the definition of $S^{-1}A$. Our definition of $S^{-1}M$ reduces to the definition of $S^{-1}A$ in the case $M = A$.

The explicit construction of $S^{-1}M$ is exactly the same as $S^{-1}A$, one takes the quotient of $M \times S$ modulo the same equivalence relation as in (1):

$$(a, s) \sim (b, t) \Leftrightarrow \exists u \in S \text{ such that } u(ta - sb) = 0,$$

where $a$ and $b$ now denote elements of $M$, and $\iota(a) := a/1$ as before. Alternatively, one can define $S^{-1}M := M \otimes_A S^{-1}A$ (see [2, Prop. 3.5] for a proof that this is equivalent). In other words, $S^{-1}M$ is the *base change* of $M$ from $A$ to $S^{-1}A$; we will discuss base change more generally in later lectures.

The map $\iota\colon M \to S^{-1}M$ is injective if and only if the map $M \xrightarrow{\times s} M$ is injective for every $s \in S$. This is a strong condition that does not hold in general, even when $A$ is an integral domain (the annihilator of $M$ may be non-trivial), but it applies to all the cases we care about. In particular, if $A$ is a subring of a field $K$ (in which case $A$ must be an integral domain whose fraction field lies in $K$) and $M$ is an $A$-module that is contained in a $K$-vector space. In this setting multiplication by any nonzero $s \in A$ is injective and we can view $M$ as an $A$-submodule of any of its localizations $S^{-1}M$.

We will mostly be interested in the case $S = A - \mathfrak{p}$, where $\mathfrak{p}$ is a prime ideal of $A$, in which case we write $M_{\mathfrak{p}}$ for $S^{-1}M$, just as we write $A_{\mathfrak{p}}$ for $S^{-1}A$.

**Proposition 2.6.** *Let $A$ be a subring of a field $K$, and let $M$ be an $A$-module contained in a $K$-vector space $V$ (equivalently, for which the map $M \to M \otimes_A K$ is injective).$^1$ Then*

$$M = \bigcap_{\mathfrak{m}} M_{\mathfrak{m}} = \bigcap_{\mathfrak{p}} M_{\mathfrak{p}},$$

*where $\mathfrak{m}$ ranges over the maximal ideals of $A$, $\mathfrak{p}$ ranges over the prime ideals of $A$, and the intersections take place in $V$.*

*Proof.* The fact that $M \subseteq \bigcap_{\mathfrak{m}} M_{\mathfrak{m}}$ is immediate. Now suppose $x \in \bigcap_{\mathfrak{m}} M_{\mathfrak{m}}$ and consider the $A$-ideal $\mathfrak{a} := \{a \in A : ax \in M\}$. For each maximal ideal $\mathfrak{m}$ we can write $x = m/s$ for some $m \in M$ and $s \in A - \mathfrak{m}$; we then have $sx \in M$ and $s \in \mathfrak{a}$, but $s \notin \mathfrak{m}$, so $\mathfrak{a} \nsubseteq \mathfrak{m}$. This holds for every maximal ideal $\mathfrak{m}$, so $\mathfrak{a} = (1)$. Thus $1 \in \mathfrak{a}$ and $x = 1 \cdot x \in M$; thus $\cap_{\mathfrak{m}} M_{\mathfrak{m}} \subseteq M$.

Each $\mathfrak{p}$ lies in some $\mathfrak{m}$ for which $M_{\mathfrak{m}} \subseteq M_{\mathfrak{p}}$, and every $\mathfrak{m}$ is a $\mathfrak{p}$, so $\cap_{\mathfrak{m}} M_{\mathfrak{m}} = \cap_{\mathfrak{p}} M_{\mathfrak{p}}$. $\square$

---

$^1$Here $M \otimes_A K$ is a tensor product of $A$-modules that is also a $K$-vector space. We need the natural map to be injective in order to embed $M$ in it. Note that $V$ necessarily contains a subspace isomorphic to $M \otimes_A K$.
