*Proof.* Suppose $I$ is invertible, with $IJ = A$. Then $jI \subseteq A$ for all $j \in J$, so $J \subseteq A \div I$, and $A = IJ \subseteq I(A \div I) \subseteq A$, so $I(A \div I) = A$. The reverse implication is immediate. $\square$

In the next lecture we will prove that in a Dedekind domain every nonzero fractional ideal is invertible, but let us first note that this is not true in general.

**Example 2.21.** Consider the subring $A := \mathbb{Z} + 2i\mathbb{Z}$ of the Gaussian integers (with $i^2 = -1$). The set $I := 2\mathbb{Z}[i]$ is a non-invertible $A$-ideal (even though it is an invertible $\mathbb{Z}[i]$-ideal); indeed, we have $A \div I = \mathbb{Z}[i]$ and $I(A \div I) = 2\mathbb{Z}[i] \subsetneq A$.

## 2.6 Invertible fractional ideals and the ideal class group

In this section $A$ is a noetherian domain (not necessarily a Dedekind domain) and $K$ is its fraction field. Recall that a fractional ideal of $A$ is a finitely generated $A$-submodule of $K$, and if $I$ and $J$ are fractional ideals, so is the ideal quotient

$$I \div J := \{x \in K : xJ \subseteq I\},$$

and we say that a fractional ideal $I$ is invertible if $IJ = A$ for some fractional ideal $J$. The definition of $A \div I$ implies $I(A \div I) \subseteq A$, and Lemma 2.20 implies that $I$ is invertible precisely when this inclusion is an equality, in which case the inverse of $I$ is $A \div I$.

Ideal multiplication is commutative and associative, thus the set of nonzero fractional ideals of a noetherian domain form an abelian monoid under multiplication with $A = (1)$ as the identity. It follows that the subset of invertible fractional ideals is an abelian group.

**Definition 2.22.** The *ideal group* $\mathcal{I}_A$ of a noetherian domain $A$ is the group of invertible fractional ideals. Note that, despite the name, elements of $\mathcal{I}_A$ need not be ideals.

Every nonzero principal fractional ideal $(x)$ is invertible (since $(x)^{-1} = (x^{-1})$), and a product of principal fractional ideals is principal (since $(x)(y) = (xy)$), as is the unit ideal $(1)$, thus the set of nonzero principal fractional ideals $\mathcal{P}_A$ is a subgroup of $\mathcal{I}_A$.

**Definition 2.23.** Let $A$ be a noetherian domain. The quotient $\operatorname{cl}(A) := \mathcal{I}_A / \mathcal{P}_A$ is the *ideal class group* of $A$; it is also called the *Picard group* of $A$ and denoted $\operatorname{Pic}(A)$.$^3$

**Example 2.24.** If $A$ is a DVR with uniformizer $\pi$ then its nonzero fractional ideals are the principal fractional ideals $(\pi^n)$ with $n \in \mathbb{Z}$ (including $n \leq 0$). We have $(\pi^m)(\pi^n) = (\pi^{m+n})$, thus the ideal group of $A$ is isomorphic to $\mathbb{Z}$ (under addition). In this case $\mathcal{P}_A = \mathcal{I}_A$ and the ideal class group $\operatorname{cl}(A)$ is trivial.

**Remark 2.25.** A Dedekind domain is a UFD if and only if its ideal class group is trivial (we will prove this in the next lecture), thus $\operatorname{cl}(A)$ may be viewed as a measure of how far $A$ is from being a UFD.

---

$^3$In general, the Picard group of a commutative ring $A$ as the group of isomorphism classes of $A$-modules that are invertible under tensor product (equivalently, projective modules of rank one). When $A$ is a noetherian domain, the Picard group of $A$ is canonically isomorphic to the ideal class group of $A$ and the two notions may be used interchangeably.
